README.md, before:

# Convex Self Static Hosting

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@get-convex%2Fself-static-hosting.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/@get-convex/self-static-hosting)

A Convex component that enables self-hosting static React/Vite apps using Convex HTTP actions and file storage. No external hosting provider required!

## Features

- 🚀 **Simple deployment** - Upload your built files directly to Convex storage
- 🔒 **Secure by default** - Upload API uses internal functions (not publicly accessible)
- 🔄 **SPA support** - Automatic fallback to index.html for client-side routing
- ⚡ **Smart caching** - Hashed assets get long-term caching, HTML is always fresh
- 🧹 **Auto cleanup** - Old deployment files are automatically garbage collected
- 📦 **Zero config** - Works out of the box with Vite, Create React App, and other bundlers

## Installation

Install the component:

```bash
npm install @get-convex/self-static-hosting
```

### Quick Start with LLM

Get comprehensive integration instructions to paste into your AI assistant:

```bash
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting init
```

This outputs all the code you need to integrate the component.

### Manual Setup

Add to your `convex/convex.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineApp } from "convex/server";
import selfStaticHosting from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/convex.config.js";

const app = defineApp();
app.use(selfStaticHosting);

export default app;
```

## Setup

### 1. Register HTTP routes

Create or update `convex/http.ts` to serve static files:

```ts
import { httpRouter } from "convex/server";
import { registerStaticRoutes } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

const http = httpRouter();

// Serve static files at the root path with SPA fallback
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting);

export default http;
```

### 2. Expose upload API (internal functions)

Create a file like `convex/staticHosting.ts`:

```ts
import { exposeUploadApi } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

// These are INTERNAL functions - only callable via `npx convex run`
// NOT accessible from the public internet
export const { generateUploadUrl, recordAsset, gcOldAssets, listAssets } =
  exposeUploadApi(components.selfStaticHosting);
```

### 3. Add deploy script to package.json

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "vite build",
    "deploy:static": "npm run build && npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload"
  }
}
```

The CLI will automatically find your `dist/` directory and upload to the `staticHosting` module.

**CLI Options:**
```bash
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload [options]

Options:
  -d, --dist <path>     Path to dist directory (default: ./dist)
  -m, --module <name>   Convex module name (default: staticHosting)
      --domain <name>   Domain for Cloudflare cache purge (auto-detects zone ID)
  -h, --help            Show help
```

### 4. Update your app's entry point (optional)

In your `main.tsx`, use the helper to auto-detect the Convex URL when deployed:

```tsx
import { ConvexProvider, ConvexReactClient } from "convex/react";
import { getConvexUrlWithFallback } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";

// Works both in development (uses VITE_CONVEX_URL) and production (auto-detects)
const convexUrl = getConvexUrlWithFallback(import.meta.env.VITE_CONVEX_URL);
const convex = new ConvexReactClient(convexUrl);
```

## Deployment

```bash
# Make sure you're logged in to Convex
npx convex login

# Deploy to Convex
npm run deploy:static

# Your app is now live at:
# https://your-deployment.convex.site
```

## Security

The upload API uses **internal functions** that can only be called via:
- `npx convex run` (requires Convex CLI authentication)
- Other Convex functions (server-side only)

This means unauthorized users **cannot** upload files to your site, even if they know your Convex URL.

## CDN Setup (Cloudflare)

For production deployments, you can put Cloudflare in front of your Convex static site for:
- **Edge caching** - Assets served from 300+ global PoPs
- **Automatic compression** - Brotli/gzip handled by Cloudflare
- **DDoS protection** - Built-in security
- **Custom domains** - Use `yourapp.com` instead of `*.convex.site`

### Cache Behavior

| File Type | Cache-Control | ETag | CDN Behavior |
|-----------|---------------|------|--------------|
| `*.js`, `*.css` (hashed) | `max-age=1yr, immutable` | ✓ | Cached forever, new hash = new URL |
| `index.html` | `must-revalidate` | ✓ | Revalidates with 304 support |
| Images, fonts | `max-age=1yr, immutable` | ✓ | Cached long-term |

### Recommended: Use a Path Prefix

When using Cloudflare, serve static files from a dedicated path (e.g., `/app/`) so your API routes remain unaffected:

```ts
// convex/http.ts
import { httpRouter } from "convex/server";
import { registerStaticRoutes } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

const http = httpRouter();

// Static files at /app/ - cached aggressively by Cloudflare
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting, {
  pathPrefix: "/app",
});

// Your API routes - different cache rules or no caching
http.route({
  path: "/api/webhook",
  method: "POST",
  handler: webhookHandler,
});

export default http;
```

This lets you configure Cloudflare Page Rules separately:
- `/app/*` → Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 month
- `/api/*` → Bypass Cache

Your app will be available at `https://yourdomain.com/app/`

### Setting Up Cloudflare

1. **Add your site to Cloudflare** and update your domain's nameservers

2. **Create a CNAME record** pointing to your Convex site:
   ```
   Type: CNAME
   Name: @ (or subdomain)
   Target: your-deployment.convex.site
   Proxy: Enabled (orange cloud)
   ```

3. **Configure SSL** - Set to "Full" in Cloudflare SSL/TLS settings

4. **(Optional) Add Page Rules** for fine-grained cache control:
   - `/app/assets/*` → Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 year
   - `/app/*` → Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 day

### Cache Purging

The CLI can automatically purge Cloudflare cache after deploying.

**Option 1: Use `--domain` flag (easiest)**

```bash
# First, login to Cloudflare via wrangler
npx wrangler login

# Then deploy with your domain
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload --domain mysite.com
```

The CLI will auto-detect your zone ID and purge the cache.

**Option 2: Environment variables (for CI/CD)**

```bash
export CLOUDFLARE_ZONE_ID="your-zone-id"
export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN="your-api-token"
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload
```

To get these values:
- Zone ID: Found on your domain's overview page in Cloudflare
- API Token: Create at Account → API Tokens with "Cache Purge" permission

**Option 3: Via Convex function (for advanced CI/CD)**

Expose the cache purge action in your `convex/staticHosting.ts`:
```ts
import { exposeCachePurgeAction } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";

export const { purgeCloudflareCache } = exposeCachePurgeAction();
```

Then call it from your CI/CD pipeline:
```bash
npx convex run staticHosting:purgeCloudflareCache \
  '{"zoneId": "...", "apiToken": "...", "purgeAll": true}'
```

## Live Reload on Deploy

Connected clients can be notified when a new deployment is available:

1. **Expose the deployment query**:
   ```ts
   import { exposeDeploymentQuery } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
   import { components } from "./_generated/api";
   
   export const { getCurrentDeployment } = 
     exposeDeploymentQuery(components.selfStaticHosting);
   ```

2. **Add the update banner to your app**:
   ```tsx
   import { UpdateBanner } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/react";
   import { api } from "../convex/_generated/api";
   
   function App() {
     return (
       <div>
         <UpdateBanner
           getCurrentDeployment={api.staticHosting.getCurrentDeployment}
           message="New version available!"
           buttonText="Refresh"
         />
         {/* rest of your app */}
       </div>
     );
   }
   ```

Or use the hook for custom UI:
```tsx
import { useDeploymentUpdates } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/react";

const { updateAvailable, reload, dismiss } = useDeploymentUpdates(
  api.staticHosting.getCurrentDeployment
);
```

## Configuration Options

### `registerStaticRoutes`

```ts
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting, {
  // URL prefix for static files (default: "/")
  pathPrefix: "/app",
  
  // Enable SPA fallback to index.html (default: true)
  spaFallback: true,
});
```

## How It Works

1. **Build Phase**: Your bundler (Vite, etc.) creates optimized files in `dist/`
2. **Upload Phase**: The upload script uses `npx convex run` to:
   - Generate signed upload URLs
   - Upload each file to Convex storage
   - Record file metadata in the component's database
   - Garbage collect files from previous deployments
3. **Serve Phase**: HTTP actions serve files from storage with:
   - Correct Content-Type headers
   - Smart cache control (immutable for hashed assets)
   - SPA fallback for client-side routing

## Example

Check out the [example](./example) directory for a complete working example.

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## License

Apache-2.0

Commit message:

Enhance CLI for Convex Self Static Hosting with new Cloudflare setup command and improved help instructions. Updated README to include quick setup steps for Cloudflare integration, detailed deployment instructions, and enhanced caching behavior descriptions. Refactored command handling for better usability and clarity.

README.md, after:

# Convex Self Static Hosting

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@get-convex%2Fself-static-hosting.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/@get-convex/self-static-hosting)

A Convex component that enables self-hosting static React/Vite apps using Convex HTTP actions and file storage. No external hosting provider required!

## Features

- 🚀 **Simple deployment** - Upload your built files directly to Convex storage
- 🔒 **Secure by default** - Upload API uses internal functions (not publicly accessible)
- 🔄 **SPA support** - Automatic fallback to index.html for client-side routing
- ⚡ **Smart caching** - Hashed assets get long-term caching, HTML is always fresh with ETag support
- 🧹 **Auto cleanup** - Old deployment files are automatically garbage collected
- ☁️ **Cloudflare ready** - One-command CDN setup with automatic cache purging
- 📦 **Zero config** - Works out of the box with Vite, Create React App, and other bundlers

## Installation

Install the component:

```bash
npm install @get-convex/self-static-hosting
```

### Quick Start with LLM

Get comprehensive integration instructions to paste into your AI assistant:

```bash
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting init
```

This outputs all the code you need to integrate the component.

### Manual Setup

Add to your `convex/convex.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineApp } from "convex/server";
import selfStaticHosting from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/convex.config.js";

const app = defineApp();
app.use(selfStaticHosting);

export default app;
```

## Setup

### 1. Register HTTP routes

Create or update `convex/http.ts` to serve static files:

```ts
import { httpRouter } from "convex/server";
import { registerStaticRoutes } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

const http = httpRouter();

// Serve static files at the root path with SPA fallback
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting);

export default http;
```

### 2. Expose upload API (internal functions)

Create a file like `convex/staticHosting.ts`:

```ts
import { exposeUploadApi } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

// These are INTERNAL functions - only callable via `npx convex run`
// NOT accessible from the public internet
export const { generateUploadUrl, recordAsset, gcOldAssets, listAssets } =
  exposeUploadApi(components.selfStaticHosting);
```

### 3. Add deploy script to package.json

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "vite build",
    "deploy:static": "npm run build && npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload"
  }
}
```

The CLI will automatically find your `dist/` directory and upload to the `staticHosting` module.

**CLI Options:**
```bash
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload [options]

Options:
  -d, --dist <path>     Path to dist directory (default: ./dist)
  -m, --module <name>   Convex module name (default: staticHosting)
      --domain <name>   Domain for Cloudflare cache purge (auto-detects zone ID)
  -h, --help            Show help
```

### 4. Update your app's entry point (optional)

In your `main.tsx`, use the helper to auto-detect the Convex URL when deployed:

```tsx
import { ConvexProvider, ConvexReactClient } from "convex/react";
import { getConvexUrlWithFallback } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";

// Works both in development (uses VITE_CONVEX_URL) and production (auto-detects)
const convexUrl = getConvexUrlWithFallback(import.meta.env.VITE_CONVEX_URL);
const convex = new ConvexReactClient(convexUrl);
```

## Deployment

```bash
# Make sure you're logged in to Convex
npx convex login

# Deploy to Convex
npm run deploy:static

# Your app is now live at:
# https://your-deployment.convex.site
```

## Security

The upload API uses **internal functions** that can only be called via:
- `npx convex run` (requires Convex CLI authentication)
- Other Convex functions (server-side only)

This means unauthorized users **cannot** upload files to your site, even if they know your Convex URL.

## CDN Setup (Cloudflare)

For production deployments, put Cloudflare in front of your Convex static site for edge caching, compression, DDoS protection, and custom domains.

### Quick Setup (Recommended)

```bash
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting setup-cloudflare
```

This interactive wizard will:
1. Login to Cloudflare (via wrangler)
2. Let you select or add a domain
3. Configure DNS pointing to your Convex site
4. Create an API token for cache purging
5. Save credentials to `.env.local`

Then just deploy - cache is automatically purged!

### What You Get

### Cache Behavior

| File Type | Cache-Control | ETag | CDN Behavior |
|-----------|---------------|------|--------------|
| `*.js`, `*.css` (hashed) | `max-age=1yr, immutable` | ✓ | Cached forever, new hash = new URL |
| `index.html` | `must-revalidate` | ✓ | Revalidates with 304 support |
| Images, fonts | `max-age=1yr, immutable` | ✓ | Cached long-term |

### Recommended: Use a Path Prefix

When using Cloudflare, serve static files from a dedicated path (e.g., `/app/`) so your API routes remain unaffected:

```ts
// convex/http.ts
import { httpRouter } from "convex/server";
import { registerStaticRoutes } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
import { components } from "./_generated/api";

const http = httpRouter();

// Static files at /app/ - cached aggressively by Cloudflare
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting, {
  pathPrefix: "/app",
});

// Your API routes - different cache rules or no caching
http.route({
  path: "/api/webhook",
  method: "POST",
  handler: webhookHandler,
});

export default http;
```

This lets you configure Cloudflare Page Rules separately:
- `/app/*` → Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 month
- `/api/*` → Bypass Cache

Your app will be available at `https://yourdomain.com/app/`

### Setting Up Cloudflare

1. **Add your site to Cloudflare** and update your domain's nameservers

2. **Create a CNAME record** pointing to your Convex site:
   ```
   Type: CNAME
   Name: @ (or subdomain)
   Target: your-deployment.convex.site
   Proxy: Enabled (orange cloud)
   ```

3. **Configure SSL** - Set to "Full" in Cloudflare SSL/TLS settings

4. **(Optional) Add Page Rules** for fine-grained cache control:
   - `/app/assets/*` → Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 year
   - `/app/*` → Cache Level: Cache Everything, Edge TTL: 1 day

### Cache Purging

The CLI can automatically purge Cloudflare cache after deploying.

**Option 1: Use `--domain` flag (easiest)**

```bash
# First, login to Cloudflare via wrangler
npx wrangler login

# Then deploy with your domain
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload --domain mysite.com
```

The CLI will auto-detect your zone ID and purge the cache.

**Option 2: Environment variables (for CI/CD)**

```bash
export CLOUDFLARE_ZONE_ID="your-zone-id"
export CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN="your-api-token"
npx @get-convex/self-static-hosting upload
```

To get these values:
- Zone ID: Found on your domain's overview page in Cloudflare
- API Token: Create at Account → API Tokens with "Cache Purge" permission

**Option 3: Via Convex function (for advanced CI/CD)**

Expose the cache purge action in your `convex/staticHosting.ts`:
```ts
import { exposeCachePurgeAction } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";

export const { purgeCloudflareCache } = exposeCachePurgeAction();
```

Then call it from your CI/CD pipeline:
```bash
npx convex run staticHosting:purgeCloudflareCache \
  '{"zoneId": "...", "apiToken": "...", "purgeAll": true}'
```

## Live Reload on Deploy

Connected clients can be notified when a new deployment is available:

1. **Expose the deployment query**:
   ```ts
   import { exposeDeploymentQuery } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting";
   import { components } from "./_generated/api";
   
   export const { getCurrentDeployment } = 
     exposeDeploymentQuery(components.selfStaticHosting);
   ```

2. **Add the update banner to your app**:
   ```tsx
   import { UpdateBanner } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/react";
   import { api } from "../convex/_generated/api";
   
   function App() {
     return (
       <div>
         <UpdateBanner
           getCurrentDeployment={api.staticHosting.getCurrentDeployment}
           message="New version available!"
           buttonText="Refresh"
         />
         {/* rest of your app */}
       </div>
     );
   }
   ```

Or use the hook for custom UI:
```tsx
import { useDeploymentUpdates } from "@get-convex/self-static-hosting/react";

const { updateAvailable, reload, dismiss } = useDeploymentUpdates(
  api.staticHosting.getCurrentDeployment
);
```

## Configuration Options

### `registerStaticRoutes`

```ts
registerStaticRoutes(http, components.selfStaticHosting, {
  // URL prefix for static files (default: "/")
  pathPrefix: "/app",
  
  // Enable SPA fallback to index.html (default: true)
  spaFallback: true,
});
```

## How It Works

1. **Build Phase**: Your bundler (Vite, etc.) creates optimized files in `dist/`
2. **Upload Phase**: The upload script uses `npx convex run` to:
   - Generate signed upload URLs
   - Upload each file to Convex storage
   - Record file metadata in the component's database
   - Garbage collect files from previous deployments
3. **Serve Phase**: HTTP actions serve files from storage with:
   - Correct Content-Type headers
   - Smart cache control (immutable for hashed assets)
   - SPA fallback for client-side routing

## Example

Check out the [example](./example) directory for a complete working example.

```bash
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md) for development setup and guidelines.

## License

Apache-2.0
